When the bugle for Reveille was played, is that a
true story as far as you know? I don't know. Is that
what's supposed to have happened? Supposedly,
that's why they called it Reveille. Well, see, I
wasn't there when Reveille was blown every
morning. And did Reveille come into classrooms
sometimes? Oh, yeah. Just in the mess hall,
classroom, mess hall, whatever. And everybody
accepted her. Oh, yeah. But nobody paid any
attention to her. She wasn't handled like she is
now by any means. Do you remember who took care of
her? Nobody. In the early days? Nobody took care of
her. Where did she sleep? I imagine she went to the
dormitories at night to be my guest. But nobody had
anything to say. She didn't belong to anybody. She
cared for herself. Religious activities, were
there
churches, religious activities going on at
Northgate? Yes, yes. Did you ever attend over
there? I did not, no. I was never there on the
weekend for that time. Was there a religious
emphasis week in the spring? I think there was, as I
remember. And in terms of religious affiliation,
there were plenty of Protestants and Catholics.
Were there some Jewish students, too? Oh, I'm
sure. I'm sure there were. And everybody was
treated okay? In fact, I expect my company
commander was Jewish. His name was Lefkoski.
Wouldn't that be Jewish? It wouldn't be. Where was
he from? I don't know. I just saw his picture again a
while ago. I got a more long one out, just
reminisced a little. At the end of your freshman
year, did you participate in final review? Oh,
yes. Yeah. Describe that. I guess it was
mandatory. Describe Final Review in those days.
Well, it was hot as hell for one thing. Well, it was
just a plain old review, and I think they did the
same thing that I guess they've done forever. The
seniors watched the last go around and the juniors
took over. I don't think that's changed. I don't
believe. Did you think you had changed much to move
up from being a fish to being a sophomore? Not
nearly as much as the guys lived on campus because,
like I told you, I wasn't in any hazing. But I'll
tell you something else I didn't get. I never got a
demerit while I was in A&M. None. And then not many
of them lived on campus that could ever stand up.
Yeah, that's right, that's right. So you didn't
have to march on the quad. Bullring. Bullring, you
didn't have to deal with that. Here comes a lady
to... Come in. Hello. Patty, this is Mr. Haskell
Monroe. Good to see you. Excuse me for not getting
up. It's quite all right. Where's the cell?
Patsy's brother-in-law was buried this
afternoon. Where were we? We're talking about
things on the campus. Did you ever go to the campus
hospital, to the Quack Shack? No. So you don't
have... Now, it was located over on the north side
of the campus. It was about, let's see, what's it,
in the chapel there now on the campus? A little
north of the chapel, wasn't it? Yes, just across
the street, as I remember from the... Now, the
president then was Walton, and he lived in the old
house across from Sabeasa. That burned. Describe
Mr. Walton. I didn't know anything about him
particularly. And working in the landscape
department, I had to work in his garden. So I used to
see him come and go, and he had a black chauffeur.
And he and I communicated a whole lot more than I did
with the president. Now, what did y'all grow in his
garden? Flowers. Oh, we had pansies and we had...
this border plant that they use still all over
campus. All kinds of flowers. Where was the flower
garden? Was it in the back of the to the west side of
the house, I believe it was. What's at that place
now where that house burned? A dormitory. Oh, is
it? I believe so. It was a big old two-story house.
And that black boy thought he was some, he couldn't
touch a mother's dick. What did the students and
all, what did you all think about President
Walton? I'm not sure that we really thought, had
much think about it. And, Haskell, you know, we
were way down on the totem pole at that time. When
Mr. Gilchrist came to be the new dean of
engineering, Did you all see much of him? No.
Occasionally
he would come to some of the engineering classes
just to make his appearance. I got to know him
fairly well. In fact, later on I knew him extremely
well being with the highway department. Describe
him in personality. What kind of man was he? Oh,
pretty headstrong. very
aggressive, very, I would say, very forward
thinking. He was,
but practical. I thought he was very practical. He
had some confrontations with some of the students
in certain times. And he won, didn't he? Usually,
yeah. Like Rutter did, you know. Now, physically,
Mr. Gilchrist was... Big fella. Big fella. And
this didn't have anything to do with the campus,
but after I became highway district engineer and
he was with the state, he attended a lot of
functions and I took him to Houston one time And he
was not bragging, but he seemed to like my driving.
So we got down there, and I was going to have to bring
him home and then go back. And Mr. Greer told him,
said, Gib, somebody else can take you back to
Bryan. Save Joe having to go back. He said, Joe will
take me. So Joe took him. Now, those were tough
depression years. We were just beginning to come
out in 36 when I started. And how important was
Franklin Roosevelt in affecting people's
attitudes about pulling out of the Depression? I
think he was as well thought of as anybody of that
day and time. We paraded for him one time, too.
Describe that. Well, we thought we were really
doing something, but let me tell you what I did. I
had a camera, and as they brought him up to the
reviewing stand, I took his picture, and they took
my camera away from me, because he did not want
people to know about his...
Infantile paralysis. His leg problem. His polio.
All right. How did they get him out of the car up onto
the platform? In a wheelchair. Okay. They put him
in a chair from the car and had a ramp. They built a
ramp up on there. As far as you could tell, could he
even walk at all? I didn't see him walk at all, and on
the reviewing stand they had a thing for him to hold
him up where he could watch as we passed by. But we
thought that was pretty special to review before
the President of the United States. Did anybody
attempt any kind of pranks that day? No. I know I set
my camera. How big a crowd was there? There were
lots of people there, lots of people. I think we put
on a pretty good parade.
Were there other famous people that came to visit
while you were a student?
Well, Russ Morgan. The big band? Came to, had a
band. Lucille and I attended at Sabisa Hall. Kay
Kaiser selected the outstanding beauty of the
year when he was there. In fact, his picture's in my
annual over there. We had one or two others that I
remember. They used to have some real functions in
that Sabisa Hall. Did you go to any of those dances?
We did. We went to Russ Morgan, I remember. How were
girls treated in those days at those dances?
Pretty special. Most of them, as I said, or a lot of
them came, they'd run buses from CIA down there.
And there were some interesting experiences when
people wrote a letter to a blind date. Yeah, I guess
so. What did the young women wear to those dances?
They wear formal long dresses? Well, it seemed to
me like not in it like we call long today. It seemed
to me like most their formal dresses were just
below knee. I know that's what Lucille would wear.
And how did the boys behave? I think pretty well, I
think pretty well. Occasionally some of them
would get them up to the dormitory afterward,
which would get them in trouble, you know. And was
there much drinking at the dances? I just don't
remember. I expect there was, but I don't remember
of any brawls or this sort of thing in particular.
And smoking. What were Aggies smoking in those
days? Well, most of them in my condition wasn't
smoking anything. If there was, they rolled a
bullderm.
They didn't have money for cigarettes. And did,
students didn't smoke pipes, did they? I think
there were some pipes I remember that were smoked.
Cigars? Not many, not many. Snuff dippers or
chewing tobacco? I expect there were lots of
chewing tobacco. I don't remember much snuff.
In fact, this fellow, Mac New, as I remember,
smoked a pipe all the time. Oh, the faculty members
did, yeah. What did you and your buddies know about
drugs? That was not even talked about that I ever
remember. Didn't know they existed. I don't guess
we did. I don't ever remember of it. During those
years, were there any places for married students
to live on campus? I don't believe so. I didn't
think there were. I don't think so. In fact, there
weren't many married students. Right, right.
Excuse me just a minute. Hattie, can you handle her
all right? Oh, yeah. All right. No project houses
or anything. What was over on that land where
College View Apartments would be built? Was that
just more pasture? I think it must have been
because the first things they put out there were
some old army barracks. I think it was right after
the war. That's right. They moved them in there and
students lived in them. The campus
organizations, what did you and your buddies
think about the Texas Aggie Band? Well, it was
pretty special, even then. It had lots of respect.
And Yale leaders? Yeah, I remember some of the
names of the ones that were there. Brody was one of
the ones that I, in fact, I just saw his name in my
book there a while ago. I don't remember them
wearing white uniforms like they do now. I don't
know what they wore, but I just don't remember
that. And who did the Aggies want to beat most? You.
And after that, who would it have been? Well, they
didn't think much of Rice. You know, Rice was sort
of a high society school.
But we, I guess Texas was really the worst.
I'm trying to think. And out-of-town football
games, you only went to one in Fort Worth? Fort
Worth. I went to one in Houston. These were my
senior year. I went to one because we paraded all
the way down Main Street in Houston. And did you go
to the game? I went to the game, yeah. How did the
crowd react on those court trips? How did they
react to Aggies marching? It was lined up on all
sides. It really was an attraction for them,
apparently. Now, did you go to any basketball
games? No. Oh, on campus. At DeWare? At DeWare
Fieldhouse. Describe going to a game at DeWare
Fieldhouse. Well, it was sort of interesting. If
you shot too high, it hit the roof. You know, it
wasn't like some of them nowadays. I
don't know anything particularly special about
it. Wasn't very big. Did y'all make a lot of noise?
Oh, yeah. And it reverberated all over the place,
you know, without any insulation. And the
baseball stadium was down next to the railroad?
That's right, right by the side of Kyle Field.
Seats were all tumbledown and in terrible shape.
Hit a ball very hard, they'd go climb over to the
football field. Please share any recollection
you have of Colonel Andy.
Let's see.
I don't know of any particular thing. What was he
like as a person? Well, I didn't have much dealing
with him or around him, not being in the corps, you
know, and not being in the dormitory. Was he the
corps commandant when you got here, or was he
coaching some? He must have been coaching. The
commandant was a colonel, a colonel...
It was before Colonel Moore. What was that guy's
name? He was infantry. Drove a big black Cadillac.
I think that was just my freshman year, and then
after him came Colonel Moore. Did some of those old
guys tell you all about what it had been like to be in
World War I? Oh, yeah. If you ever gave them an
opportunity, you know. If they ever stopped in the
shade somewhere, take ten. Did old former
students come back to visit the campus then? Not
significantly that I remember of. I'll tell you
who used to tell those stories was those old
sergeants that were in the active army that were
assigned to the military department. They could
really tell you big stories. Let's see, the Yale
leaders were special people, weren't they? Did
the singing cadets exist then? I got a picture of
them over there in that thing. They were there. I
didn't even think about that until I was looking at
my annual a while ago. They were there in 40. Were
you aware then or later that there were any secret
fraternities at A&M? No. Never heard of such. Did
you ever hitchhike? Oh, that's the only way you
went anywhere. Describe Aggie hitchhiking.
The main place that they, the two places they had,
one was out on 6th to go south. At Eastgate. At
Eastgate. And the other one was in Bryan,
catacombed across from the courthouse where the
health department is now. There was a church
there. And they're on that corner. And every time
one walked up, he asked, who's the last one? And he
gave them his number, and then you took the next
number. And when they came along and picked
somebody off, then you moved up. but you didn't
dare buck the line you got where your life was and
I've seen as many as a hundred standing on that
corner and Haskell and many of those boys would get
out there and hitchhike all day Saturday go as far
as they could didn't go anywhere particularly and
then turn around Sunday morning or Sunday
afternoon and start back just to get away Did you
ever, you personally or anybody you ever hear of,
have any bad Aggie hitchhiking? No, I never heard
of that. Never. And anybody that came along, if
they had any room, they'd pick them up. But here's
another interesting thing. If somebody came
along and he's going to go to Calvert or he's going
to go to Hearn, they didn't want to go there because
there wasn't anybody stopping at Hearn or
Calvert. They wanted to either go to Waco or Fort
Worth or somewhere. And they didn't have any
compunction about turning it down. They'd just
say they'd rather not go to Hearn. Now, if you were
in downtown Bryan and wanted to get a ride back to
College Station, where did you go? I don't
remember where that was, but I know they did that. I
suppose they'd stand on any corner and somebody
would know if he had a uniform on he was going back to
campus. Did many students go to and from College
Station on the train? Did they catch the train to go
home? Oh, to go home? Oh, yeah, I'm sure. Worlds of
them did. In fact, that's the way they'd go to
Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth, the ones that had the
money. Most of them hitchhiked. Where did an
airplane land in the 30s in this county? Where was
there a runway?
I don't have any idea. Because Easterwood didn't
exist, and Coulter Field wasn't built yet, was it?
I don't think so. As far as you know, President
Roosevelt came by train. Oh, yeah. I know he came by
train, because they ran a train ahead of his train.
I know that. Security. Did you all listen to his
fireside chats, you and your parents and
everything? Yes. Everybody did. We had a battery
radio out at Wheelock, because it didn't have any
electricity. Oh, they'd gather around. Did
people feel better after they heard President
Roosevelt? I think so. He had a settling voice.
Let's see. Who were the famous people then or
later, who were students when you were here? Who
were some of the students who became famous? Woody
Varner was one of them. Oh, describe Woody. Woody
was the cadet colonel in my senior year. Oh, make
believe I didn't know who he was. Tell me about
Woody Varner. Derwood T. Varner from Cottonwood,
Texas. Yeah. Went on up to, what, Kansas or where?
Nebraska. Nebraska, yeah. Oh, he was, I think he
was well liked by the students. He was, he was a good
leader as far as I'm concerned, I was, could say
concerned. But here again, Haskell not being in
the, living in dormitories, I didn't have a lot of
personal connection with a lot of those, a lot of
those guys. Physically, what size was he? I would
say he was probably a six foot man, probably would
have weighed 160 or 170 or something like this.
Good, trim young man. Very, very military
looking. Was a good athlete and a good student.
Yeah, I know. Let's see. Dick Todd, you overlapped
with him. Oh, I did. Describe him. Scatback,
that's the best description of him. He could run
through and around more people than you ever did
see. I saw several football games that he was in. If
he could have been on a team like Kimbrough, or one
or two of those others later on, he would have been a
phenomenal player. But he was ahead of them. Now
you overlap with John Kimbrough. Oh, yes.
Describe him. Oh, he was a horse. See I was in school
his junior year and then through the spring of his
senior year and then I went to his games in the fall
of his senior year. I was over Texas the day that
they beat us. It was a cold, dreary day, and
everybody was all uptight about the game, you
know. And this fella Crane. Jack Crane. Jack Crane
made a touchdown in 60 seconds. Yep. And that was
the ball game. Did you go to it? I was there. I was
there. I bet Aggies were sick when the game was
over, weren't they? Didn't bother us for the first
half, you know. Oh, we'll come out of it. But when
that game was over, it was terrible. Lucille had a
cousin that was in Texas at the time, and we got her
and went to the ball game with her, and we told her,
she said, if we win today, we're going to go home
with you all. And I said, well, we'd like to have you
go, but there's not much chance you're going home
with us. I tell you, that trip home wasn't very
exciting. As far as you know, was Kimbrough a good
student? I don't know. Did the athletes go to class
then? Sometimes. Were there, as far as you know,
were there any giveaway grades for athletes? I
expect there were. I don't know anything about
that. But y'all did? Something's oughta
interesting.
The Blacks, of course, were not very well thought
of at that time. I remember one, see that team
always went on the train, out of town ball games.
They went on a game out to California or Utah or
somewhere one time.
And Porter was going to lock the, they stayed on the
car at night. He was going to lock the car. And some
of them wasn't in and he told them they couldn't get
in. And they just about ganged him. They had quite a
deal about that. Let's see, Marion Pugh was on
those teams. He was. Did you know him then? Just
casual. Doggy Pugh, I think he called him. Dookie
Pugh. Dookie Pugh, okay.
Did you know any of the other Bill Connats, sir? No,
there was one that I knew a little bit. What was his
name? I can't remember his name. I came in contact
with one of them several times.
Let's see, now let's talk about international
events. Do you remember being aware when Germany
invaded Poland in the fall of 1940, 1939? 1939,
yeah. How did you hear about it, on the radio? Yeah,
and there was an old Czech man that worked for the
landscape department, name was Brin, and he had
come from Czechoslovakia. And he kept up with it,
and of course he kept all of us informed about what
was happening and why it was all so bad and all that,
but people were beginning to worry about it. It was
quite the talk about that time. Did you and your
buddies begin to think that the United States
would ever be involved in that war? Not when I
graduated, I guess. See I graduated in June of 40
and of course Japan was already invading a lot of
the southeastern countries over there so they
were already on the move. Germany was on the move
and I got I got called active duty in February of 41 I
remember that's a year before Pearl Harbor,
because I had a commission, got out with the
commission, and I got called there. Roosevelt was
beginning to build up the force as he saw it coming,
and I got called to duty, so I was on duty a year
before Pearl Harbor. Back to some A&M traditions.
How much did, who paid for your senior ring? How
much did it cost? Twenty-five dollars.
Twenty-five dollars. Twenty-five. Have you ever
lost it? Yes. Where'd you? I didn't tell you my
story about it? No. Oh, I'd love to have a ring
story. Oh, listen. I was getting ready to go
overseas. It was over in Mississippi. I had an
engineer maintenance company that I was
commanded. We were loading our equipment on the
train. It rained all day. I was up and down the train
supervising the tying down, loading equipment.
It was gravel. It wasn't any asphalt. And I was
walking along and I saw a ring on the ground. And I
reached down and picked it up. A&M ring. I looked
inside and it said Joe Hanover and I didn't know I'd
lost it. I think what I'm sure all day with my hand
down my fingers swell and I expect I put it on my
little finger is what I replay and it probably
slipped off but I didn't even know I'd lost it. And
have you, do you have any ring stories about being
somewhere far far away and somebody noticing it?
Everywhere you go. Everywhere. That ring is
identified... I went to London back in March a year
ago. I ran into a few people over there that said
something about my A&M ring. Of course, after the
war, I was in Europe nearly a year after the war was
over, and of course I went to Paris and I went to
Switzerland and Luxembourg and all around the
country, and even some of those people over there
recognized A&M rings. Senior boots. Did you have
senior boots? Mm-hmm. Where'd you get them? Still
got them. Where'd you get them? In Hollick?
Hollick. How much? $35. Lucille gave me those
boots. She was working. How did you feel when you
first put on those boots? Oh, that was great. And
let me tell you what, people that bought boots from
Hollick, he kept them shined all year, free of
charge. Now, and I've never asked anybody this,
did you meet Mr. Hollick? I met a Mr. Hollick. One of
them. Describe the one you met. Well, he was a
typical old fellow that looked like he'd worked
hard all his life.
Wanted to talk, you know. We've got a lot of stories
to tell you. Just wanted to be your friend.